Modify S5496(Python): Migrate to LayC (#2815)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S5496/python/rule.adoc

== Why is this an issue?

Server-side template injections occur in an application when the application
retrieves data from a user or a third-party service and inserts it into a
template, without sanitizing it first.

If an application contains a template that is vulnerable to injections, 
it is exposed to attacks that target the underlying rendering server.

A user with malicious intent carefully performs actions whose goal is to cause

> the template to change its logic into a malicious one.

Reviewer: Maybe rephrase this sentence:
A user with malicious intent can create requests that will cause the template to change its logic into unwanted behavior.

Author: sgtm !

> A user with malicious intent carefully performs actions whose goal is to cause
> the template to change its logic into a malicious one.

Author: ```suggestion
A user with malicious intent can create requests that will cause
the template to change its logic into unwanted behavior.
```

combination of OS injections and *misconfiguration* of:

* Docker or Kubernetes clusters
* cloud services
* network firewalls and routing
* OS access control

== How to fix it

=== Code examples

==== Noncompliant code example

The following code is vulnerable to server-side template injection because it
is inserting untrusted inputs into a string that is then processed for
rendering. +
This vulnerability arises because the rendering function does not validate the
input, allowing attackers to potentially inject malicious Python code for
execution.

[source,python,diff-id=1,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
from flask import request, render_template_string

@app.route('/example')
def example():
    username = request.args.get('username')
    template = f"<p>Hello {username}</p>"
    return render_template_string(template) # Noncompliant
----

==== Compliant solution

[source,python,diff-id=1,diff-type=compliant]
----
from flask import request, render_template_string

@app.route('/example')
def example():
    username = request.args.get('username')
    template = "<p>Hello {{ username }}</p>"
    return render_template_string(template, username=username)
----

=== How does this work?

> == Use template variables

Reviewer: Should this be a second- or a fourth-level heading?

Author: Oh you are right, I changed it mistakenly to a higher level header
```suggestion
==== Use template variables
```
